<b>Open Asset Repatriation System (OARS)</b>

The Open Asset Repatriation System is an open-source digital solution designed to strengthen transparency and accountability measures in the international asset repatriation process between countries. The OARS prototype was developed to function primarily as a payment tracing tool that provides real-time visibility to permissioned stakeholders. The design of the system demonstrates how distributed ledger technology (DLT) can be harnessed to create immutable records, make the misappropriation of funds significantly easier to identify, and help institutionalize the rule of law. While technology alone can’t monitor what actions may take place offline, the goal of OARS is to empower partners in an asset return proceeding to accurately track and record fund allocation and oversight. Additionally, it encourages open civic engagement by giving civil society organizations visibility into a transparency tool to help monitor whether money is being spent on predetermined efforts such as strengthening education or public health systems, or if money is being diverted to other uses. Together, these measures have the potential to bolster trust and accountability in public institutions. 

OARS is a standalone web-based solution, but its effectiveness and usage need to be considered either alongside or integrated into partners’ existing financial system and technical infrastructure. Successful system design and development hinge on a deep understanding of stakeholder needs, capabilities, and desired outcomes, as well as thorough planning and architecture. Building digital services that meet objectives makes it possible to more effectively deliver policy and public programs.
New America’s Digital Impact and Governance Initiative was awarded a grant from the State Department’s Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs to support this initiative. The development of the prototype received additional support from the Rockefeller Foundation. OARS was advanced with a commitment to the ethos that digital solutions are strengthened when they are grounded in openness and cross-sector collaboration. The first phase of development was completed in partnership with the technology provider R3. For more information on this or other Digital Impact and Governance Initiative (DIGI) projects at New America, please email DIGI@newamerica.org.
